Hi YouTube. There is no way this is
going. The whole point is that this
isn't good for YouTube. Why would this
go on YouTube? Why this be a YouTube
video? I don't believe you. It's not
that difficult. I don't know if it's
difficult or not. So, there's this cool
program called Strudel. I found this and
I want to give all credit to them.
Hopefully, they are okay with me showing
this on stream. I got to show this to
you because I don't know if you guys
know this. Bit of a bit of a bit of a
techno fan. So I had not heard of this
but this is a JavaScript app library and
you write lines of code that represent
different instruments doing different
things.
>> There were five notes 04 097
16th notes in the scale of G minor
[music]
subtract one octave.
The sound was a saw to wave [music]
tamed with acid controlled with the
slider.
Next kick drum. Trans kick drum [music]
or on the floor
with the scope.
Clone our lead to create the bass. The
bass is a simple pattern.
Subtract two [music] octaves.
[__] catch it, dude.
>> Sound should be a super saw. [music]
>> So,
>> we need more chaos with random d-tuning
of the super saw.
>> This is a banger. I know. It's so cool.
And so, I want to learn to do this.
>> We need more energy. We need a top.
[music]
>> We need a top.
[music] [__] cat jam, dude. So, this
is Strudel live programming music.
Again, I want to give credit to uh
Switch Angel with this really, really
dope account. I want to do this. This
sounds sick. And so, going to try to
[music] learn it. That being said,
obviously, this will, you know, probably
take a little bit of time. However, what
I would like to do is get the very bare
bones of a song done today. That's when
the stream ends. The timer, I guess,
technically doesn't mean anything. I
assume you know what Better Off Alone
is, right? This is like one of the most
iconic trans techno songs of all time.
Isn't Better Off Alone [music]
copyrighted? Yeah, I mean, but I
presumably I won't make it so good that
it gets copyrighted.
>> [music]
>> That's easy. Kick.
And then we add high hats. See, this is
doable. Okay. Probably everybody's heard
of the song. So, what I want to do is
just get to that. I think that's doable.
And we'll say it goes off of your guys's
vote. So, let's start. Let's just do
sound. Wait. Clap. I think.
Ow. Pow. Ow. That is loud. Did Doug make
better off alone? [laughter]
All right. But check this out.
Oh, I didn't turn THE [music]
>> OKAY. WELL, let's say it
>> has to be higher than it has to be. I
don't know what. Like, this is so loud
and awful sounding. How do I stop it?
Stop.
And that's what we're doing today. I'm
going to try to learn. We check out some
of Doug's music. I guess for context, I
did make like electronic music for in
high school. So, I know the basic like
terminology and stuff. For example,
ducking. Like, I know I know what that
is. Like I know how to, but I know how
to do that within like FL Studio. I
obviously have not done this as code. So
I'm like like this is a song I made
here. Skip ahead. At the risk of being
[music] like that guy who is like
showing off his music at the party when
nobody wants to listen to it. Okay.
Strudel. This is the program we're going
to use. Uh blah blah blah blah blah.
Here's some examples. Dude, [music] the
examples are crazy. Look at this. This
is insane. I don't even know JavaScript
and this is all in JavaScript. [music]
Honestly, not that bad. It's good, but
it's just not like special. This is
their sample, and it will run live in
the browser here. Ooh.
Ooh.
Oh my lord. [music]
Wow. Okay. So, they load samples here.
This is going to be the uh the audio
stuff. CPS. They set the child
protective services at 75. [music]
chords offset minus one voicing. There
is so much stuff in here that I don't
know like how did [music] the drums drop
out for a period of time and then come
back in. Nothing we can't figure out by
bashing our heads against the wall for
hours. True. Fortunately, Better Off
Alone is a pretty simple song. So, I
think that'll be uh it'll be easy. We
have interactive code fields. To play a
sound, we do sound.Casio. Here we go.
Oh, change Casio to metal.
Okay, we have successfully made a song.
Um, so we play a sound Casio sound. You
can do insect.
Why
do fast
eight? Run it.
>> Okay, that that is awful. All right,
cool. Can you play some of your
Newgrounds or Hearthstone music for
nostalgia's sake?
>> Very briefly, again, at the risk of
being that guy at the party who says,
"Hey, can I turn on my music?" I made a
song entirely out of Hearthstone sounds.
But then this part is where it gets
>> Jane VERSUS JANA VERSUS JANE VERSUS
JANE.
>> SORRY, JANE.
>> JANE,
SORRY.
There's just one cool part coming up.
>> All right, cool. That is probably my
favorite song I made when I was still
doing music. And this is in 2015 that
we're talking about, so 11 years ago.
Anyways, back to real music.
Okay, we've got drum sounds.
Oh, yeah. [music]
So, if we do sound and then we have
something inside the sound parenthesis,
then those play over the course of a
cycle. So, a cycle is 2 seconds by
default. And in this case, it's going to
be bass drum, high hat, uh, snare drum,
I don't know what, open hat. So,bank, it
looks like that changes it to a
different machine. The longer the
sequence, the faster it runs. Okay. So,
if we do sound, and it's in parenthesis
over 2 seconds, it's going to do all of
the the tokens that are inside. If we
double this,
[music] it will play twice as fast.
So, whatever is in the quotes is always
going to be played over the course of 2
seconds. [music] And if you have more
stuff, that means it's going to be like
crammed faster in there cuz it still has
to be over 2 seconds. We can also just
[music] force it to play faster by doing
dot fast. And then we add a number like
two. And then now it's instead of
playing over two seconds, it will play
it over one second. I guess 200 times. I
mean, we can see what it sounds like.
Let's just see if we add like a hund of
them. How does this sound? Maybe Pog
Champ.
Wow. Okay. 95%. I don't think I can I'm
allowed to um count the vote until
there's at least the melody. I feel like
we at least need the melody. Okay, this
part I don't understand. One per cycle
with angle brackets. Here's the same
sequence, but this time surrounded with
angle brackets. This [music] will play
one sound per cycle. With these
brackets, the tempo doesn't change when
we add or remove elements. She uses this
a lot here in the cool trans song. She
has a lot of these angle brackets. So,
she's using angle brackets to describe
things. And then there's sub angle
brackets within the angle brackets. So,
how are we using this? So, we play this.
It only plays one sound per cycle. With
these, the tempo doesn't change when we
add or remove elements. Okay. So, if you
don't have the bracket, [music] it's
going to force everything inside to be
over the course of 2 seconds because
this is now very slow. We can speed it
up again like this. [music]
So, if you do times 8 on the outside,
you're speeding it up by eight. I'm not
sure why you would do this.
>> Been supporting DJ Mug [__] since day
one. DJ [__] [laughter]
That would be an insane DJ name. CPM is
cycles per minute. By default, the tempo
is 30 cycles per minute, which is 120
divided by 4 is one cycle every 2
seconds. In western music terms, you
could say the above are eighth notes at
90 BPM and four four time. But don't
know if you don't know these terms or
not required. Okay. So, [music]
so you set the you set the pace of the
song, right? And then
and then we could speed this up by
double
And I assume I can just set this to
whatever I want.
This is a 21 pilots ass beat. It's
literally just drums. Okay, so if we
want to have a break in the sequence,
you put a dash
[music]
multiplication speed. Oh my god. Okay,
this is already getting crazy. Oh, you
can just instead of having to write out
hh four times, can I just say hh x * 4?
hh * 4. Ah, so we can create little like
subsequences or we just multiply it.
This is this is really cool. So with
this one, it would be bass drum, then
two high hats, then a rim shot, then
three high hats. So it's like a triplet,
then a bass drum, and then inside of
this is split. Oh my god. This eighth
note is split into two parts. [music]
The first part is a silence, and the
second part is a double high hat. So it'
be like D. And then this is a rim, and
this is high hat double. Okay.
>> [music]
>> Okay. Okay. I like how this is more
complicated than just producing music
normally. Oh, this is way more
complicated, but I think it's cool and I
want to keep learning it. What is that
BPM notation? Yeah, I don't really
understand this, but that's fine. We can
guess and check sound in this case. Oh,
wait. These are just examples. Oh my
god.
[music]
Here's how I would like try to simplify
it for you. You're basically deciding
what is going to happen over 2 seconds.
The comma is like a separate instrument
or a separate [music] pattern. So we're
saying this pattern is going to happen
over two seconds. This pattern is going
to happen over 2 [music] seconds and
this pattern is going to happen over 2
seconds. You are designating blocks that
happen [music] and then within that
block you can say these are the
instruments that happen at what pace.
All this should be pretty easy for our
song because better off alone is like
[music] pretty simple I think.
Oh damn. What's funny is this visually
looks like if you just use an actual
music program.
>> Hey Doug, do you prefer [music] poly
rhythms or poly kills? I wanted your
opinion as a white guy. All right,
thanks Doug. Love you.
>> Polarisms are OP, dude. Now we got
notes. We got notes. Time for notes.
>> Wait, hold on.
I'm going to [music] see if this works.
We have this as our bass. This is going
to add a second instrument.
[music]
>> Do you think
this beat is depressing? You don't
understand how art is made. It doesn't
poof into existence perfect. You have to
tweak and be and be depressed by it for
several weeks. Okay. Hey, you can also
play with letters. That seems way
[__] easier than numbers on a piano.
So, with the angled brackets, we're
saying each one of these subnotes is
it's going to be an entire cycle, and
then I'm speeding that entire set up by
some amount.
[music]
Cinema faster 160. [music]
So, you have eight octaves for every
instrument. I assume I can make like G4
[music] sharp now, right? If I do this,
it's nice. Yeah, it's Minecraft.
[laughter]
So, with unpitched sounds, we can change
the sound of our notes with sound. So,
we would use the letters to say what the
melody is and then dot sound to say what
sound it is actually using. And we can
change it to guitar
[music]
saw pogies. Oh, we're going to be using
sawtooth. Don't worry. I've always been
more of a square fan myself. Can I add
multiple lines in here? I can. [music]
Oh, this need Wait, why aren't these
playing at the same time? I need to
stack them. Or a number sign on each.
Oh, yeah. Cuz with Switch Angel, with
each instrument, she's doing a dollar
sign and a colon. And that seems to say
this is running simultaneously as
everything else. Let's try that. And now
they should in theory play
simultaneously.
[music] Doug, we're trying to study.
Dude, the the drums are way too loud. I
assume there's a volume somewhere,
right? How do we change the volume of
this sound? Oh, gain, gain, gain. We got
We turn the drums way the freak down.
And then this note we can mess with. and
we see how this sounds.
[music]
Okay. Sawtooth. Fantastic. [snorts] We
can combine two types of brackets in all
sorts of ways. Oh my god. [music]
Okay,
[music] I get it. Elongate with at.
Okay. You can use an at to describe how
long the note is. Do we need effects?
Oh, beans. We do need effects. It's low
pass filter. So the low LPF is going to
be a low pass filter. For those who are
not aware, filter is basically saying of
all the sound of an instrument, you're
going to take out like some of the high
sound or some of the low sound. I love
low pass filters. They're so nice. Gain.
Uh oh, this is just volume, right?
[music]
Oh, you can automate the gain. That's so
sick. So gain is essentially how loud we
want it to be. So what this is saying is
the high hat is going to play every 16
like 16 times a cycle, right?
But it's saying the f the gain. Oh my
god. Every other hit is quieter. Why is
this times four though?
[music] I guess I'm not I'm confused
about the four. Like does it matter if I
hit eight? Does that change anything?
Oh. Oh, it's each one of the things goes
by four by four. What if this is by two?
[music]
If I do times two, it's going to fit
twice as many of these in. So to do
that, it's it's scrunching it down by
half. And so if there were 16 notes
before, instead of eight and eight, it's
now going to be four and four.
D
So four. [music]
Okay. So it's not that it speeds it up
by four. It's that it has to condense it
into the same amount of time. This makes
sense. I get it. It's a little
confusing.
>> Promise us that you'll [music] remember,
Chuck, when you make it big. The world
of music can be cruel, so remember your
roots and [music] where you came from.
Never forget who you are.
>> What if in like 4 days there's like an
article about the shocking fall of Doug
Doug the musician and it's a whole
expose about how over the last four the
first two just was incredible and then
after playing at a massive music
festival I descended into drugs and
addiction and I've been a shambles and
the band has fallen apart. And you read
about this on Monday and you're like wow
what that was fast that was really fast.
Let's combine all of the above into a
little tune.
>> [music]
>> Okay. Okay. All right. All right. Shape
the sound with an ASMR envelope. Oh my
god. Oh, we got a tact delay sustain
release. Nice.
For those who are interested, the way
you make an electronic sound generally
is called an envelope. And you're
basically saying, how would you describe
this to people who who know this? Well,
I'm having a hard time understanding.
Could you open up Microsoft Paint and
draw a square [music]
[__] I mean, whatever. You understand?
Delay. We got delay.
Oh, I [__] love delay. We got to
throw delay on everything, dude. Reverb.
[music]
Somebody said, "Can we have it so text
to speech could run screw?" That would
be crazy. I don't know if that's doable.
As in you guys could donate Texas Beach
and it plays [music] the beat. That
would be extremely dope. Okay, room is
reverb. It's the equivalent of literally
playing something in a big room where
you like hear the echo. Not even echo,
but you know, it like kind of like
reverberates a little bit. That's
reverb. Oh, let's add delay. Uh 8 delay.
Check this [__] out. [music]
That's nice.
>> We got pan. 2 3 4 1 2
>> Oh my god.
No, no, no, no. We're not doing pen
modulations. Oh my god. We can control
What the [__]
>> Whoa. What is a pllin? It's smooth
random. Oh, interesting.
You can set a range.
By default, waves oscillate between zero
and one. We can change that [music] with
a range. So, the low pass filter is
going to be a saw that is a range of
500. Oh my god.
Okay, that's really sick. What's sick
about this is we can just have like a
little bit of change happening in the
background. I definitely want to
remember this to make music sound more
alive. You don't just want the same
sound playing over and over, but you
want to have like a mild change. So,
with something like a high hat, this is
pretty noticeable.
Here's the difference.
That's it, right? And that's just the
same sound. But if we add just like a
little bit of filter and it's just like
[music]
changing a little bit in the background,
not to the point that you would be like,
"Oh, I'm noticing that." But just having
little bits of of like motion can make a
huge difference. So I think we just add
that to all our sounds. We can change
the modulation speed with slow and fast.
[music]
So now we can actually have
I'm going to copy this down as well.
[music]
Okay. Recap. Cool. Pattern effects.
We're ready. It's time to make better
off alone.
We probably start with the uh with the
kick actually. [music]
First off, set cycles per minute 130.
Let's just make sure this works.
Stop. Stop. Stop. [music] Stop. Oh,
divided by four. That's why.
Okay. Next up, we got to pick our drum
sound. Oh my god, we have so many to
pick from. Ow. That could be good.
I hate the high hat. I think we we go
with the bass drum for now. So, we're
going to stack. We just put everything
and we divide it by commas. So, this
would be the first one in the stack. And
we're just going to do bass drums. And
this should be bass drum times four,
right?
Okay. And then we need bass. I guess
let's just start with synth bass. Synth
bass.
And now we got to get the the notes. Uh,
people who read music, could you just
tell me the the four notes here? So, you
said E to start, right? It would be E2,
E2, E2, E2, E2. [music]
But really, we want to have a break. So,
it should be silent because it's on the
offbeat. [music]
I want to get this notation right. Would
it be like this time 4? [music]
Yeah.
So, that times four. If we do another
one, it's going to speed up, right? So,
we don't want that. What instead we need
to do is put it in angled brackets
[music] so that we're not speeding it
up.
Nice. D sharp 2. It's at the second
octave. Gsharp 2. Gsharp and Fsharp 2.
[music]
Okay.
Okay. High hat. We've got 8 minutes. I
think I can actually do this maybe in
time.
Okay. Okay. So, we need we need high
hats and clap. That's that's fairly
easy. So, we do this. It's going to be
clap. That sounds like [__] [music]
There we go. That's better. Way better.
Better. Okay. And then we also need the
high hat. [music]
Our clap. We want this every other beat.
So, we don't want it like this. We
instead want something like dash and
then clap. [music]
This would be times eight, I believe.
Okay. All right. We got a sexual song
going. [music]
Okay. And
lead. Can we create the lead in six
minutes? I think so. Will that be the
full song? That sounds good. No, not
really. Wait, hold on. Liver lover,
you're the first one I saw. Is it? This
is our notes. So, we are going to start
with I guess this note. And then then we
What uh sound? We're going to do
sawtooth for now.
So, there's a lot of patterning we have
to do.
>> Currently, it sounds like better off not
making music in the future.
[music]
>> Bop bop bop bop bop bop. Okay, so these
are both B4 still. [music]
Diablo the cheetah. The timer has gone
off. Remove your hands from the keyboard
[music] and lay on the floor for
immediate [laughter] consequences.
>> I don't want to stop. I'm enjoying it.
I'm having fun. Ladies and gentlemen,
the final song.
>> It's like honestly kind of close. So,
this needs to be way the [__] slower. I
mean, we can do what? Divided by four,
right? [music]
That did not work. I need to slow this
way the [__] down. Slow two.
There we go. D.
This is A4, I assume. A sharp times
four. D.
And that's probably this one at three.
And this is a triplet. So we put it in
three times. No, no, no. Like that.
Wait, no. This should be this should be
higher. F5. There we go.
[music]
So we need to increase the amount of
notes that are in this particular beat.
So, I think we do this, right? So that
there's eight total instead of four.
Okay. Okay. We actually [__] Okay,
cool. Cool. Damn, dude. We got [__]
song. Now we're [__] cooking with
ass. And now we can do the same thing
here. We would slow it down even more.
So, what are the notes on the second
one?
[laughter]
Good job, buddy. You really tried your
hardest. Okay, what else do we need to
add for [music] it to be like officially
complete? You got to do the vocals.
[laughter] I want to Okay, I'll add
vocals at the end. I'm going to leave
this instead of the alternating code
version that we did before. I'm just
going to leave it like this. I think
it's a little easier to see. What other
like sounds do we need?
Dude, you got to have that whoop whoop.
Could you just make whoop whoop with
vocals? Technically, yes. We got to find
a sound that sounds like a whoop whoop.
We've got samples.
It could work. Can somebody in chat who
kind of knows music give me notes that
might be the arpeggio of being like
aipoop?
The sound you're thinking of is called a
white noise sweep just heavily pitched
up. Uh
well what I'm wondering is like if I
just go like uh a b cde d e f. Oh but
each one of these need to be like five
or six. Check this out. [music]
It's the right [music] idea. Okay.
Somebody said g a b cish.
Sounds confident we're doing that.
[music]
It's literally perfect.
There's a way to make it key. The keys
notes. We can put it into the right key.
A scale. Scale. That's the right word.
Scales. Scale. Scale. Scale. Scale.
Hello. Scale. Scales. Okay. We're going
to put it in the scale of the song. B
major. Somebody said F major. And now
instead of doing G, we do 1 2 uh we do 1
2 1 3 1 3 5 7. And that's it. And then 1
35 7 again. [music]
Ah, that's basically it. We're counting
it. That's basically it. Jesus Christ.
All right, we're we're moving on. We're
done.
>> [__] music producer.
>> Thank you. I know that was delayed and
that was for something else, but I'll
take credit for it right now. I hate it.
It's fine.
Bop 2 3 4 1 2 3 4. Bop bop. Hold on. Bop
bop bop bop bop bop bop bop bop. Right,
we're doing the intro lead now. [music]
Wait, is this is this the whole thing?
It sounds so bad with the the whoop
whoops do not sound good. [music]
Okay, that's close enough.
I don't understand. His sounds better
than mine. That makes no sense at all.
The only thing is pad as in the
background chords. I think we do that
and then we're done. Let's look at the
really cool example and we're going to
look at how she did chords. Again, this
is switch angel, who I first saw this
program from.
I don't know what O does, but that seems
like we can do that. So, white noise is
just it's just the sound of like wind
basically, but it helps fill out sound
really well. Okay, we take this. We say
S white times four. So, it's it's four
like white noises. And then and then
[music] that'll be an attack of 04,
which means it's building up. And then I
don't know what 006 I don't know what
this does. Ah,
stop. Stop. Stop. What does O? What does
O do, Doug? We need a top. I We don't
need a top right now. We need a B. We
don't need a bottom or a top. O is
octaves. Oh, maybe it's octave six, so
it goes up. That's smart. Okay, attack
[music] three. And we're going to turn
the gain way the [__] down 0.1. And
we're going to gain volume again. And
we're also going to do a low pass
filter. It's a little dumb on white
noise, [music] but that's fine. We're
going to make it pretty high, like
12,000. And maybe a high pass filter,
uh, 1,000. Ah, shut up. Stop.
>> Okay. Chords. Yeah, we're going to use
Anybody who know music have suggestions
here. I'm going to put in the first
chords that somebody says the chord
should be Oh my god, you you're
incredible.
Damn, you [__] nailed it. First
[music] try, dude. Those chords are
perfect. I kind of want to add like
maybe another F sharp, too. [music]
Oh, wait. I can do that cool gain thing.
Hold on, hold on. No, no, no, no. [__]
I wanted. Okay, so basically what I'm
trying to do is every time the kick drum
happens, the chord should get quieter.
And that's why that way the kick sounds
louder and it sounds better versus the
chords always happen. Duck orbit [music]
pattern target orbit. What? [laughter]
Okay, so this is sawtooth delay orbit 2.
Oh, I have to put it in orbit and then
the Wait, wait, wait, hold on. If I put
it in the orbit. One second. Holy [__]
[music] We put the cord in orbit. I
think what this is saying is that every
time there's a kick drum, that says that
anybody who's my duck orbit will have a
duck depth of attack and one. And then
that means that if the cords down here
are in the second orbit, they will get
ducked with the thing. Let's see if it
works.
[music]
Holy. I guess the white noise is already
fine, [music] but we put it in orbit. We
put it in orbit.
and then we put add in the bass.
And now we get our intro lead. [music]
All right. You got to get louder.
[music]
Where's the whoops? Oh, there [music] we
are. Hold on. We got to make it louder.
We need louder whoops.
[laughter] That whoops suck. The whoops
sound awful. It's like a full It's like
a song. We did.
It was pretty close, honestly. Like
basically done. We need vocals. Look,
don't freak out about my vocals. They're
going to be
>> beautiful.
Oh god. Time to leave. Come on. Give me
one shot. Okay. The lead feels a little
little plain. How do we make the lead a
little sexier? Oh, we just add another
sound. Super saw. I don't know if
that'll
[music]
That's interesting. We just add another
instrument
>> for the final performance. Don't forget
the strobe lights.
>> How do I do that?
>> Don't forget the fog machine for the
final performance and the pyro technics
and the parks of backup dancers.
>> Yeah, it's on you guys. You guys got to
do we have like party parrot? What's
that? What's that emote? Okay,
unfortunately we're not adding party
parrot unless I do it in like two
seconds. That's too good. And then we
need uh oo bang. Oo bangers. [laughter]
We need moo as well. Too relevant
[music] to the mug.
>> Got to change the desk to a DJ booth as
well. [laughter]
>> We don't have time for this.
>> And now coming to the stage. The man you
all waited 4 hours to watch. DJ [music]
[__] mugs.
>> It all comes full circle.
Ladies and gentlemen, hold on. Hold your
oobangs. Please, please, please. Ladies
and gentlemen, please welcome to the
stage DJ Mudfucker.
[applause and cheering]
It's a new uh little song I wrote. Okay.
All right. All right. Now, it's got to
start with a few woos.
[music]
[__] What's this?
Where's my white noise? Where's the
white? Okay. Okay.
[music]
Do you think you're better [screaming]
off?
Doing your best.
[music]
Do you think you're better off?
And then we turn that port up.
Why are the whoops so loud? Turn down.
Oh [__] [music] One point.1.
[music]
[applause]
>> [applause]
>> Ladies and gentlemen, that was DJ.
>> If there was one part of that that I
don't think landed, just one, it was the
whoop whoops. They were too loud. Well,
we did it. We made music. Hold on.
Before you go write some mean funny
YouTube comment, let the record show. My
song was good enough to get claimed on
YouTube. We had to cut parts [music]
from this performance because both
Twitch and YouTube are utterly convinced
that I was playing the actual song on
screen. And that means I did it,
everybody. I'm a musician now.